weibz (bitmovin)
chris (bitmovin)
Roland (bitmovin)
kevin johns (Centurylink)
James gruessing (BBC R&D)
weibing (MS)
Sam Z. (MS)
Dirk G. (Unified)
Arjen wagenaar (Unified)
peter chave (akamai)

1. Go over the revised version of the draft before uploading next ietf 
2. Additional explanation/overview of the draft and the motivation of decision made 
3. comment/input from bitmovin on the support for out of order arrival of segments 
      - parallel out of order typically known for VoD, latency will be introduced for live 
      AP: bitmovin to develop the issue and post an issue on github explaining the use case and the issue
4. Question on the grouping of streams and publishing point 
     - the idea is a bundle of streams is posted to a publishing point URL created for the presentation
     - the active processing entity will generate the final media presentation for the client, also based 
       on hte user preferences. 
5. Some comments on the URL path and signalling  
      - right now the URL is explained in section 2, URL should probably also be made specific 
        to the two profiles such that it is easy to understand
      - later in the spec draft in section 4 add information on the POST_URL 
      - one stream per TCP stream 
      - for example allow different relative URL paths in p1 to post the different streams 
6.  Question on the imperative of constant lenght segments 
      - main reason is to support redundant workflows where different encoders are posting 
        the same stream, or in case an encoder is replaced in a workflow
      - other reason is reducing the size of the manifest
      - request about making this a MUST -> this is perhaps a bit to strong as it not always possible 
        to have segments of exactly the same length
7. Some initial discussion on the workflow diagram, MS may provide some diagrams 
         AP: Sam to check with John about this.
8. Draft will be updated, new version as IETF draft will be uploaded before august 
9. Dataformat for metadata (fragmented mp4 sparse track) will be proposed in MPEG 
   to allign with NBMP and CMAF, only the MP4 file structure not the protocol behavior
   10. Some input received from Will Law (Akamai) on p2, to be discussed offline AP Will make github issue

AP Bitmovin: make git issue explain the out of order delivery for live. 
AP Sam: check with John about the diagram 
AP Rufael: work out some ideas on specific text on the URL contstruction for the different profiles
AP Rufael: schedule next call and update the draft
AP Will Law: make issue explaining the proposed updates
